doc: tools: created minimum required and recommended tools (#2480)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/gs_recommended_versions.rst

.. _gs_recommended_versions:

Required tools
##############

The following table shows the tools that are required for working with |NCS| |version|.
It lists the minimum required version and the version that is installed when using the :ref:`gs_app_tcm` as described in :ref:`gs_assistant`.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Windows

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Tool

>            - Minimun version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
           - Minimum version
```

           - Toolchain manager version
         * - CMake
           - |cmake_min_ver|
           - |cmake_recommended_ver_win10|
         * - dtc
           - |dtc_min_ver|
           - |dtc_recommended_ver_win10|
         * - git
           -
           - |git_recommended_ver_win10|
         * - GNU Arm Embedded Toolchain
           - |gnuarmemb_min_ver|
           - |gnuarmemb_recommended_ver_win10|
         * - gperf
           - |gperf_min_ver|
           - |gperf_recommended_ver_win10|
         * - ninja
           - |ninja_min_ver|
           - |ninja_recommended_ver_win10|
         * - Python
           - |python_min_ver|
           - |python_recommended_ver_win10|
         * - SEGGER Embedded Studio (Nordic Edition)
           - |ses_min_ver|
           - |ses_recommended_ver_win10|

   .. group-tab:: Linux

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Tool

>            - Minimun version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
           - Minimum version
```

           - Tested version
         * - ccache
           -
           - |ccache_recommended_ver_linux|
         * - CMake
           - |cmake_min_ver|
           - |cmake_recommended_ver_linux|
         * - dfu_util
           -
           - |dfu_util_recommended_ver_linux|
         * - dtc
           - |dtc_min_ver|
           - |dtc_recommended_ver_linux|
         * - git
           -
           - |git_recommended_ver_linux|
         * - GNU Arm Embedded Toolchain
           - |gnuarmemb_min_ver|
           - |gnuarmemb_recommended_ver_linux|
         * - gperf
           - |gperf_min_ver|
           - |gperf_recommended_ver_linux|
         * - ninja
           - |ninja_min_ver|
           - |ninja_recommended_ver_linux|
         * - Python
           - |python_min_ver|
           - |python_recommended_ver_linux|
         * - SEGGER Embedded Studio (Nordic Edition)
           - |ses_min_ver|
           - |ses_recommended_ver_linux|

   .. group-tab:: macOS

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Tool

>            - Minimun version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
           - Minimum version
```

           - Toolchain manager version
         * - CMake
           - |cmake_min_ver|
           - |cmake_recommended_ver_darwin|
         * - dtc
           - |dtc_min_ver|
           - |dtc_recommended_ver_darwin|
         * - git
           -
           - |git_recommended_ver_darwin|
         * - GNU Arm Embedded Toolchain
           - |gnuarmemb_min_ver|
           - |gnuarmemb_recommended_ver_darwin|
         * - gperf
           - |gperf_min_ver|
           - |gperf_recommended_ver_darwin|
         * - ninja
           - |ninja_min_ver|
           - |ninja_recommended_ver_darwin|
         * - Python
           - |python_min_ver|
           - |python_recommended_ver_darwin|
         * - SEGGER Embedded Studio (Nordic Edition)
           - |ses_min_ver|
           - |ses_recommended_ver_darwin|

Required Python dependencies
############################

> The following table shows the python packages that are required for working with |NCS| |version|.
> If no version is specified, then the default version provided with pip is recommended.
> If a version is specified, then it is important that the version installed matches the required version.
> See :ref:`additional_deps` on how to install the Python dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table shows the Python packages that are required for working with |NCS| |version|.
If no version is specified, the default version provided with pip is recommended.
If a version is specified, it is important that the installed version matches the required version.
See :ref:`additional_deps` for instructions on how to install the Python dependencies.
```

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Package
     - Version
   * - anytree
     - |anytree_ver|
   * - canopen
     - |canopen_ver|
   * - ecdsa
     - |ecdsa_ver|
   * - imagesize
     - |imagesize_ver|
   * - intelhex
     - |intelhex_ver|
   * - packaging
     - |packaging_ver|
   * - progress
     - |progress_ver|
   * - pyelftools
     - |pyelftools_ver|
   * - pylint
     - |pylint_ver|
   * - PyYAML
     - |PyYAML_ver|
   * - recommonmark
     - |recommonmark_ver|
   * - sphinxcontrib-mscgen
     - |sphinxcontrib-mscgen_ver|
   * - west
     - |west_ver|
   * - windows-curses (only Windows)

>      - |windows-curses_ver|

Reviewer: I'm missing for example Sphinx and Breathe in this list (which are the ones that regularly give us trouble for the doc build).
Does it make sense to maintain this list "manually", only extracting the versions? Shouldn't the full list be generated?
When someone adds a new Python requirement, they will forget updating the table here ...

Author: > I'm missing for example Sphinx and Breathe in this list (which are the ones that regularly give us trouble for the doc build).

Because at this stage I only added the requirements for successfully building the projects.
If we want to also list the requirements for doc building, then I would suggest that goes into it's own table.

I think very few users of NCS wants to spend time building the docs themselves, when they can easily view them online.

> Does it make sense to maintain this list "manually", only extracting the versions? Shouldn't the full list be generated?

That would be nice, but then we would need to generate the rst file as well.
I would like to keep the table simple for this PR, but I agree, generating the table content would be nice in a future improvement.

> When someone adds a new Python requirement, they will forget updating the table here ...

Just like they might forget to add a package to `requirements.txt` in the first place:
https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/2920

Reviewer: There are already some of the doc tools in there (recommonmark, sphinxcontrib-mscgen), but not all. They can go into a different section if possible, sure, but since we document how to build the documentation, we also need to specify the requirements for it somewhere.

And imo you'll usually remember to add a requirement to the file that installs it ... but you will forget to document that it is needed.

Author: > There are already some of the doc tools in there (recommonmark, sphinxcontrib-mscgen), but not all.

Probably because nrf https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/blob/master/scripts/requirements.txt has not done the split between base and doc that Zephyr has:
- https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/blob/master/scripts/requirements-base.txt
- https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/blob/master/scripts/requirements-doc.txt

So either `recommonmark` and `sphinxcontrib-mscgen` should be moved to independent doc table, that also includes https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/blob/master/scripts/requirements-doc.txt reqs, or they should be removed from this list, if they are solely needed for docs.

I've made an additional table, so people can comment.

.. _gs_recommended_versions:

Required tools
##############

> The following table shows the tools that are required for working with |NCS| |version|.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table shows the tools that are required for working with |NCS| v|version|.
```

> It lists the minimum required version and the version that is installed when using the :ref:`gs_app_tcm` as described in :ref:`gs_assistant`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It lists the minimum version that is required and the version that is installed when using the :ref:`gs_app_tcm` as described in :ref:`gs_assistant`.
```

         * - Python
           - |python_min_ver|
           - |python_recommended_ver_linux|
         * - SEGGER Embedded Studio (Nordic Edition)
           - |ses_min_ver|
           - |ses_recommended_ver_linux|

   .. group-tab:: macOS

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Tool
           - Minimum version
           - Toolchain manager version
         * - CMake
           - |cmake_min_ver|
           - |cmake_recommended_ver_darwin|
         * - dtc
           - |dtc_min_ver|
           - |dtc_recommended_ver_darwin|
         * - git
           -
           - |git_recommended_ver_darwin|
         * - GNU Arm Embedded Toolchain
           - |gnuarmemb_min_ver|
           - |gnuarmemb_recommended_ver_darwin|
         * - gperf
           - |gperf_min_ver|
           - |gperf_recommended_ver_darwin|
         * - ninja
           - |ninja_min_ver|
           - |ninja_recommended_ver_darwin|
         * - Python
           - |python_min_ver|
           - |python_recommended_ver_darwin|
         * - SEGGER Embedded Studio (Nordic Edition)
           - |ses_min_ver|
           - |ses_recommended_ver_darwin|

Required Python dependencies

> ############################

Reviewer: ```suggestion
***************************
```
This must be h2, not h1.
Note that the number of asterisks is probably wrong in the suggestion. ;)

> The following table shows the Python packages that are required for working with |NCS| |version|.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table shows the Python packages that are required for working with |NCS| v|version|.
```

Author: I included this, and gets:
> v|version|

cause it don't replace correctly in that case.

but if I do:
```
... working with |NCS| v |version|.
```

then I get:
>  ... with nRF Connect SDK v 1.3.99. 

with an extra space. How can I get both `|version|` correctly replace AND the `v` next to it like: `v1.3.99` ?

Author: seems `ltrim` can do the trick, but should go together with the `|version|` definition.
https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/directives.html#replace

> ltrim : flag
>    Whitespace to the left of the substitution reference is removed.

Reviewer: We could also just define |version| as "v1.3.99", but apparently that definition is implicit in the conf file ...
@utzig Any idea?

Reviewer 2: try `v\ |version|`

Author: `\ ` will give you a space.
So won't help.

Reviewer 2: ![backslash](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/107070/94264328-e4b55180-ff0c-11ea-8a63-9187b310c5c5.jpg)

I just happen to have **tried** it. Do you see a space in picture? Because I sure don't! For reference: https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html#escaping-mechanism

`In non-URI contexts, backslash-escaped whitespace characters are removed from the document. This allows for character-level inline markup.`

Author: strange, when I tried it locally yesterday then I still got a space.

Reviewer 2: > strange, when I tried it locally yesterday then I still got a space.

It could be that I am already with newer documentation build tools, specifically docutils==0.16.0, and for some reason it did not work with previous versions, but in that case it will soon.

Author: > I just happen to have tried it.

so did I yesterday, but still got a space.
Have tried again now, and this time there is no space :)

Thanks.

> The following table shows the Python packages that are required for working with |NCS| |version|.

Reviewer: Is this actually true? Or does it show **some of** the Python packages (namely the ones that are in the list below)?

Author: it should show all packages required to build and run Zephyr, mcuboot, and nrf, as we parse all three requirements.txt.

And by your request, also the required doc packages.

What it doesn't show is the ncs extras that are used for upmerge handling, and ci tools, that simply defines specific version, as those are not needed for the above building and running.

Author: also extra packages in Zephyr are not shown, such as gitlint, lpc_checksum, gcovr, etc. as those are not strictly needed for building and running (but if following the getting started, then users do get those installed)

Reviewer: And if someone happens a new tool to the requirements.txt, but not to the list?
This WILL happen.

Reviewer 2: That was what I thought when I asked how the `.txt` files are updated. We should have a single source of truth regarding versions, be it one or more files, requirements.txt or whatever, that *all* tooling and *all* build systems, CI, etc agree to use, but I don't think it is something in the scope of this PR.

Author: > We should have a single source of truth regarding versions, be it one or more files, requirements.txt or whatever

and that truth is exactly the `requirements*.txt` and `versions*.txt` files.

What @ru-fu is asking for, is getting the tables in the docs generated based on those files, and not only the version information.
And that part is outside the scope of this PR.

.. _gs_recommended_versions:

> Required Tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Required tools
```

Author: fixed

##############

> The following table show the list of tools required for working with |NCS| **v1.3.0**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table shows the tools that are required for working with |NCS| **v1.3.0**.
```

Reviewer: Can we extract the NCS version automatically here? Since this is now for v1.3.99 already, not v1.3.0.

Author: done

> It lists the minimum required version as well as the version that is installed when installing using the :ref:`gs_app_tcm` as described in :ref:`nRF Connect for Desktop <gs_assistant>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It lists the minimum required version and the version that is installed when using the :ref:`gs_app_tcm` as described in :ref:`gs_assistant`.
```

Reviewer: Should we point out that this is the version that is used for automatic testing as well? @shantha-14

Author: Language comments addressed.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Tool

>      - Minimun Version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Minimum version
```

Author: fixed

>      - Toolchain Manager Version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Toolchain manager version
```

Author: fixed

   * - Python
     - |python_min_ver|
     - |python_recommended_ver|

>    * - GNU ARM Embedded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * - GNU Arm Embedded Toolchain
```

Author: fixed

     - |gnuarmemb_min_ver|
     - |gnuarmemb_recommended_ver|

>    * - SES - Nordic Edition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * - SEGGER Embedded Studio (Nordic Edition)
```

Author: Did that on first version, but it looked bad when rendering the page locally, due to the first column became too wide.

Reviewer: But that is the name of the product - so we don't have a choice. And content is more important than how it looks. ;)

Author: This is how it looks:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9802583/85265538-b5f19000-b472-11ea-85f4-88ea13afcd35.png)
a horizontal ruler, and the `n` cut off per default.
Alternative, do you know a trick to wrap inside a cell, so we could have:
```
+-------------------------+----------+----------+
| SEGGER Embedded Studio  | 4.52     | 4.52     |
| Nordic Edition          |          |          |
+-------------------------+----------+----------+
```

Regarding `SEGGER Embedded Studio` vs `SES`, we are using SES in the docs already: 
Both in the TOC:
https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/getting_started.html?highlight=ses
and in the `Building and Programming`
https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/gs_programming.html?highlight=ses

Reviewer: Yes, we are using SES as abbreviation after we have introduced it earlier on in the topic. The first occurrence must be spelled out.

And this is just how tables look in RST. Seems you're using a very small window though (or haven't updated to the latest stylesheet that uses full width).

Author: Nope.
Using the css from master, and a big window, notice the grey area left of the rendered page until window frame:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9802583/85270258-534fc280-b479-11ea-902f-7b30a1c2b9de.png)

Note, i'm using Firefox 77.0.1 on Linux.

Author: > The first occurrence must be spelled out.

Then the header should be changed here:
https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/gs_programming.html#building-with-ses

cause people might see the TOC before reading the text inside this section.
And in the TOC then SES has not been spelled out.

Author: > Using the css from master, and a big window, notice the grey area left of the rendered page until window frame:

A complete clean of doc-build, and rebuilding from scratch fixed the grey area.

Reviewer: Just trust the tech writer on when abbreviations are okay and when not. ;-) In subheadings it's fine, in the table we should spell it out.

How does the output on https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/index.html look for you? Same space?

Author: I do trust tech writers, just wanted to ensure that having SES in TOC was not something that had slipped by the reviewers eyes by mistake.
